{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf390
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 \ul \ulc0 Exhibit title
\b0 \ulnone . Making the Connection: Networks are all around you.\

\b \ul Venue
\b0 \ulnone : Pacific Science Center, Seattle, WA\

\b \ul Author:\ulnone  
\b0  Aaron Brooks, University of Washington and Institute for Systems Biology\
\

\b \ul Key Concepts\ulnone : \

\b0 Networks\
How network structure (topology) influences dynamics\
Network robustness/fragility\
Evolution of biological networks\
Cellular decision making\
Microbes\
\

\b \ul Protocol
\b0 \ulnone :\
\
The exhibit consists of many plastic orbs and alligator clips placed on a foam board representing the cell. When an electric circuit is completed the orbs flash red, some also produce noise. The activity starts with two cells each containing pre-wired networks. One is wired to be "robust", the other "fragile". The robust network can handle the removal of many wires without compromising the number of blinking nodes. The fragile network stops blinking after the removal of only one wire (pre-established by facilitator). \
\
Typical encounter: Brief discussion about cells (e.g. "Do you have cells/microbes?"). Introduce 
\i Halobacterium salinarum
\i0  (e.g. "This water is 10X more salty than seawater. Are there cells/microbes there?"). Introduce biological networks (e.g. "How can 
\i Halobacterium 
\i0 survive such extreme conditions?"). Introduce robustness using networks. Have visitor remove wires from robust network.  Contrast that to the fragile network. ("What do you expect to happen?", "Why is it happening?", "Can you build a 'robust' network?", etc). Discuss biological implications. \
\
Alternate introduction (for older audience): Use letters to demonstrate six degrees of separation in small world networks. Make analogy to microbes. Interesting network behavior. \
\
Other possibilities (depending on age of the student):\
\

\i Targeted exploration
\i0 . Determine how to connect target nodes to an existing network. Connect across networks. \
\

\i Evolution game
\i0 : Can you build a network more robust to random wire removal than your neighbor? The nodes and wires are color coded to be used in a game of "evolutionary robustness". The game demonstrates concept of evolutionary robustness of networks.  \
\

\b \ul Future Direction\ulnone :\
\
Authors: 
\b0 Aaron Brooks and Wei-ju Wu
\b \
\

\b0 Touch-enabled web activity that can be used at museums or in classrooms. Will gamify above concepts and others, including improved understanding of network dynamics (node size adjustment, rather than blinking). Visitors will be asked to progress through various levels with "goals" (i.e. network designs to accomplish a particular task given a particular tool set).\
\
Very early prototype at http://www.aaron-brooks.org/InteractiveNetwork/interactive_network.html\
}